## PROJECT 1: BENSON

> Week 1

In the first week, students work in small groups using MTA turnstile
data to estimate the volume of people on the street, so that
(theoretical) non-profits and companies could deploy street teams
efficiently. We provide the data and guide students through
exploratory data analysis and plotting so they can focus on new tools,
brainstorming, and communication.


## PROJECT 2: LUTHER

> Weeks 2-3

For our first pass at machine learning we dive deep into prediction
with regression models. We experience the beauty of flat files, and
learn to scrape information from websites using tools like Python
Requests, BeautifulSoup, and Selenium. After scraping some movie box
office data together, students find and scraped more resources on
their own and present their movie industry regression predictions to
the class.


## PROJECT 3: MCNULTY

> Weeks 4-6

This time we form groups that work as the internal data science team
at a fictional company in the insurance agency (details can be
determined). In class we cover supervised learning algorithms and
relational databases. Each student work on his or her own
classification model that fit within the overall goals of the company
and the team. During McNulty we also do a deep dive on visualization
package D3 to build interactive dashboards.


## PROJECT 4: FLETCHER

> Weeks 6-8

In the last guided project, projects support the unsupervised learning
and NLP algorithms we are learning, NoSQL databases, and API data
collection. They also learn enough about web to create their own APIs
on the Python Flask microframework to serve data from our databases to
their visualizations. Students work individually and had very few
other constraints for this project.


## PROJECT 5: KOJAK

> Weeks 9-12

For their final projects students are free to use anything covered in
class or to learn something new to answer the questions they wanted to
address. Some know what they would work on during the admissions
process. Others are striking out on entirely new turf. Every student
works intensely and challenge her- or himself to create something
cool, interesting, useful, or worthwhile.
