#### Paul's completely meaningless yet useful, unscientific yet empirical, tongue-in-cheek yet serious rambling thoughts on data scientists and their statistics

Dear (stats) friends,

I wanted to better convey some of my thoughts about the role of statistical methods in Data Science.  Please bear in mind, this is *not* any statement on the proper way to approach this topic.  I do not mean to be an authority on all the statistics things you should or shouldn't know for all data science roles.  I'm simply speaking from my personal experience in ~2.5 quite different data science jobs, you can take the following advice to heart or completely discard it as you like.

First off, to explain my perspective on my data science experience, I believe it's necessary to include a little of my backstory.  If I sometimes come off as anti-stats or close to it, that's actually far from the truth.  I majored in physics and math, no computer science until my first job!  From college I've held onto only 5 of my textbooks: 1 on Quantum Physics because it's the best book ever, 1 each on Special and General Relativity because Al, and **2 on Probability and Stats** (#NerdAlert).  

I'm mentioning that not to convince you that I can do stats (I can, but it's very possible some of you have had more formal training), but to convey that those were some of my favorite classes, I loved stats!  Probably because I was good at it.  I was hired to do those types of mathy things surrounding the Natural Language Processing (NLP) projects I was working on in my first job.  I wasn't supposed to be a coder--I'd never even coded before!

And do you know what I discovered in that role?  I didn't need it!  By it, I mean the extra maths.  Obviously I don't mean *all of it*, but the more time I spent on data science projects in that job and in others the more statistics specifics and other advanced math I found myself being forced to forget, and I saw the same thing with my data science colleagues with similar backgrounds (the League of Failed Physicists)!    

Why?  Because **pragmatism rules the day in Data Science**.  I realized that while having a strong base in math gave me a leg up on understanding, worrying about all of the tiniest formal details was stymieing my productivity relative to others.  I had to make concessions and drop some of the various formulas I'd memorized and instead focus my brainpower on the things that were going to make me the most productive practicing Data Scientist possible.  This is where the **Hacking** component of Data Science comes into play.  Hacking is not a bad word anymore, it's how you get things done.  **The ability to see the shortest path to a valid solution is (IMO) the most important trait for a good data scientist.**  

Picture that crazy tricky probability problem that you're banging your head against the wall trying to find an analytic solution for--why would you do this when you can code a simulation and try it out in literally 1 minute?  That's the type of mindset I'm thinking of, developing your toolset and intuition to the extent that you can quickly assess the best way to tackle a given problem efficiently and effectively.

There's an ongoing holy war between Data Scientists who say Statisticians aren't pragmatic and Statisticians who say Data Scientists have just taken their job and added some sexy branding.  Both can be right.  I'm not trying to tell you to forget your stats, and **definitely don't forget the core concepts**, but I'm purely saying in my experience you don't need to memorize nearly as much of it as people seem to think.  

**Likewise**, you don't need to memorize as much coding as people think either--you just need to be able to call on it quickly when necessary.  So rather than sitting around hesitantly when you're not totally certain of something, dive in!  Throw caution to the wind, try stuff out and just maybe it will work (seriously, this is the biggest problem smart people have in my experience, not just trying stuff unless they know they're 100% right).  This is the world that Google and StackOverflow have created, and it's a glorious one, where we can devote our brains to Steph Curry's True Shooting % instead of monotonous things like all possible applications of a Chi-Squared Test.
